[Translations] 1 - Gatsby graphql queries refactor (#3303)
responsible-ai-collaborative/aiid: site/gatsby-site/src/scripts/README.md

Reviewer: I would move this file to the `site/docs` folder or add a link from `docs/site/README.md` to here.

# Translation Process

> The translation process runs as a Github Action workflow. The workflow is scheduled to run **every day at 5 AM GMT**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The translation process runs as a Github Action workflow. The workflow is scheduled to run once per day.
```

Less likely to go out of date and reader can just check the actions anyways ;-)

> We currently support translations for all reports in the `reports` collection, and the fields that are translated are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We currently support translations for all new reports in the `reports` collection, and the fields that are translated are:
```

- Report `title`

> - Report `text`

Reviewer 2: What's the difference between text and plain_text? Would this be a good place to document it?

- Report `plain_text`

The available languages for translation are defined in the environment variable `GATSBY_AVAILABLE_LANGUAGES`.
```
GATSBY_AVAILABLE_LANGUAGES=en,es,fr,ja
```

## Github Action Workflows

The structure of the Github Action workflow is as follows:

- [.github/workflows/translate-production.yml](/.github/workflows/translate-production.yml) - Translations for the production database. It calls the "translate.yml" workflow.
- [.github/workflows/translate-staging.yml](/.github/workflows/translate-staging.yml) - Translations for the staging database. It calls the "translate.yml" workflow.
- [.github/workflows/translate.yml](/.github/workflows/translate.yml) - The actual translation process used by the two workflows above.

## Workflow Steps

1. Get the list of languages, which is pulled from the [/site/gatsby-site/i18n/config.json](/site/gatsby-site/i18n/config.json) using the `GATSBY_AVAILABLE_LANGUAGES` environment variable as a filter.

> 2. Translate each report into every language and store the translated reports in a `translations` database within a `reports` collection:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Translate each report into the supported languages and store the translated reports in a `translations` database within a `reports` collection:
```
